scripts/README.md, before:

# MuscleMap Scripts & Claude Developer Guide

## Hello, Claude!

Welcome to **MuscleMap** - a cross-platform fitness tracking application that visualizes muscle activation in real-time. You are the AI developer responsible for implementing features, fixing bugs, and deploying changes across our multi-environment infrastructure.

**Live Production Site:** https://musclemap.me/
**GitHub Repository:** https://github.com/jeanpaulniko/musclemap

---

## Your Mission

1. **Plan** features before implementing them (use TodoWrite tool)
2. **Implement** changes in git worktrees (isolated development environments)
3. **Merge** all worktree branches into main using `./scripts/merge-all.sh`
4. **Deploy** across all environments using `./deploy.sh`
5. **Verify** the deployment is working at https://musclemap.me/

---

## Project Vision & Architecture

### The MuscleMap Vision

MuscleMap is a **universal fitness platform** built on these core principles:

- **Single Source of Truth**: PostgreSQL database with Redis caching layer
- **API-First Architecture**: All clients (web, mobile, VisionOS, Apple Watch) consume the same REST/GraphQL API
- **Clients Only Animate**: Frontend apps are pure presentation layers - they receive state and render it beautifully
- **Cross-Platform**: React web app, React Native mobile, VisionOS spatial computing, Apple Watch companion
- **Extensible**: Plugin architecture for third-party fitness device integrations
- **Performance-First**: Native C modules for compute-intensive operations (geohashing, rate limiting)
- **Biometric Integration**: Apple Watch, HealthKit, Garmin, Fitbit, and other fitness device data

### Design Aesthetic

- **Colors:** Electric blue (#0066FF), deep blacks, white accents
- **Typography:** Bebas Neue (headings), Inter (body), JetBrains Mono (code)
- **UI Style:** Glassmorphism, subtle gradients, 3D muscle visualizations
- **Animations:** Smooth, physics-based, performance-optimized
- **Mobile:** Native feel with haptic feedback

### Tech Stack

| Layer | Technology |
|-------|------------|
| **Frontend Web** | React + Vite + TailwindCSS + Three.js (3D) |
| **Mobile** | React Native + Expo |
| **VisionOS** | SwiftUI + RealityKit |
| **API Server** | Fastify (Node.js) + TypeScript |
| **Database** | PostgreSQL |
| **Cache/State** | Redis |
| **Native Modules** | C code compiled to Node addons |
| **Hosting** | Linux VPS (Caddy reverse proxy) |

### Directory Structure

```
musclemap.me/
├── apps/
│   ├── api/           # Fastify API server (TypeScript)
│   └── mobile/        # React Native + Expo app
├── packages/
│   ├── client/        # API client SDK for all platforms
│   ├── core/          # Shared business logic
│   ├── shared/        # Types and utilities
│   ├── plugin-sdk/    # Plugin development kit
│   └── ui/            # Shared UI components (Tamagui)
├── native/            # C native modules (geohash, rate limiter)
├── scripts/           # Automation scripts (YOU ARE HERE)
├── docs/              # Architecture documentation
├── src/               # React web frontend
└── public/            # Static assets
```

---

## Development Workflow

### Step 1: Understand the Task

Read relevant documentation:
- `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` - System architecture
- `docs/API_REFERENCE.md` - API endpoints
- `docs/DATA_MODEL.md` - Database schema
- `docs/PLUGINS.md` - Plugin system
- `docs/BIOMETRICS.md` - Health data integration

### Step 2: Work in a Worktree

Claude Code creates isolated git worktrees for each conversation:
```
~/.claude-worktrees/musclemap.me/<worktree-name>/
```

Your changes are isolated from main until you merge. This allows parallel development.

### Step 3: Make Changes

1. Use TodoWrite to track your progress
2. Edit code in the worktree
3. Run `pnpm typecheck` to verify no TypeScript errors
4. Commit your changes frequently

### Step 4: Merge & Deploy

Use these scripts in order:

```bash
# 1. Merge all worktree branches into main
./scripts/merge-all.sh

# 2. Deploy everything to VPS
./deploy.sh "Your commit message"

# 3. Run database migrations if needed
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"

# 4. Restart API if needed
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 restart musclemap-api"
```

---

## Scripts Reference

### Primary Scripts

#### `merge-all.sh` - Merge Worktree Branches
Collects all changes from git worktrees and merges them into main.

```bash
./scripts/merge-all.sh              # Interactive mode
./scripts/merge-all.sh --auto       # Auto-merge without prompts
./scripts/merge-all.sh --list       # List branches only
./scripts/merge-all.sh --dry-run    # Preview what would happen
```

#### `deploy.sh` (root) - Full Deployment
Commits, pushes, and deploys to VPS with full rebuild.

```bash
./deploy.sh "Commit message"
```

What it does:
1. Commits changes in current directory
2. Pushes to GitHub
3. Updates all worktrees
4. SSHs to VPS and pulls latest code
5. Rebuilds all packages and frontend

#### `production-deploy.sh` - VPS-Side Deployment
Run directly on the VPS for manual deployments:

```bash
./scripts/production-deploy.sh           # Full deployment
./scripts/production-deploy.sh --quick   # Skip tests
./scripts/production-deploy.sh --pull    # Just pull, no restart
```

### Utility Scripts

#### `deploy-branch.sh` - Branch-Based Deployment
```bash
./scripts/deploy-branch.sh                    # Standard deploy
./scripts/deploy-branch.sh --deploy --skip-tests  # Quick deploy
./scripts/deploy-branch.sh --auto-merge       # Auto-merge to main
```

#### `generate-icons.cjs` - App Icon Generation
```bash
node scripts/generate-icons.cjs
```

#### `maintain.sh` - Interactive Maintenance Menu
```bash
./scripts/maintain.sh
```

#### `repo-cleanup.sh` - Clean Build Artifacts
```bash
DRY_RUN=1 ./scripts/repo-cleanup.sh  # Preview
./scripts/repo-cleanup.sh            # Execute
```

---

## Remote Server Commands

### SSH to VPS
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me
# Or with IP: ssh root@72.62.83.202
```

### Common Remote Commands

```bash
# Check API status
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 status"

# View API logs (last 50 lines)
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 logs musclemap-api --lines 50 --nostream"

# Follow API logs live
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 logs musclemap-api"

# Restart API
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 restart musclemap-api"

# Run database migration
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"

# Rebuild API
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:api"

# Full rebuild
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:packages && pnpm build:api && pnpm build"

# Check disk space
ssh root@musclemap.me "df -h"

# Check memory
ssh root@musclemap.me "free -m"

# Check running processes
ssh root@musclemap.me "htop" # (interactive)
```

### Pattern for Remote Commands
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && <command>"
```

Chain multiple commands:
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && git pull && pnpm install && pnpm build"
```

---

## Common Issues & Solutions

### Issue: API won't start - "Cannot find module '../../../native'"

**Cause:** The native module path is incorrect or not built.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Build native module on VPS
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/native && pnpm add -D typescript @types/node && pnpm build"

# Rebuild API and restart
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:api && pm2 restart musclemap-api"
```

### Issue: TypeScript errors in hangouts/geo services

**Cause:** The hangouts feature has incomplete TypeScript types.

**Temporary Solution:** Comment out broken imports in `server.ts` or remove files:
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api/src && rm -f http/routes/hangouts.ts middleware/security.ts services/geo.service.ts services/hangout.service.ts"
```

### Issue: Database migration fails

**Cause:** Missing environment variables or database connection.

**Solution:**
1. Ensure `.env` file exists in `apps/api/`
2. Check DATABASE_URL or PG* variables are set
3. Run migration:
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"
```

### Issue: PM2 process keeps crashing

**Check logs:**
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 logs musclemap-api --lines 100 --nostream"
```

**Common fixes:**
```bash
# Rebuild
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:api"

# Clean restart
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 delete musclemap-api; cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pm2 start dist/index.js --name musclemap-api"
```

### Issue: Merge conflicts

**Solution:**
1. Resolve conflicts in the worktree
2. Commit the resolution
3. Re-run merge script

Or manually:
```bash
cd /Users/jeanpaulniko/Public/musclemap.me
git checkout main
git merge origin/<branch-name>
# Resolve conflicts in editor
git add .
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflicts"
```

### Issue: Redis connection errors (non-critical)

Redis is optional. The API works without it but with degraded caching.

**To ignore:** Set `REDIS_ENABLED=false` in `.env`

**To fix:**
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "apt install redis-server && systemctl start redis"
```

---

## Build Order

When rebuilding everything, follow this order:

```bash
# 1. Shared packages (dependencies for others)
pnpm -C packages/shared build

# 2. Core business logic
pnpm -C packages/core build

# 3. Plugin SDK
pnpm -C packages/plugin-sdk build

# 4. API client
pnpm -C packages/client build

# 5. UI components
pnpm -C packages/ui build

# 6. API server
pnpm -C apps/api build

# 7. Frontend (Vite)
pnpm build
```

Or use convenience scripts:
```bash
pnpm build:packages && pnpm build:api && pnpm build
# Or
pnpm build:all
```

---

## Database Operations

### Run Migrations
```bash
# Local
cd apps/api && pnpm db:migrate

# Production
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"
```

### Seed Data
```bash
cd apps/api && pnpm db:seed
```

### Migration Files
Located in `apps/api/src/db/migrations/`. Naming convention:
```
001_initial_schema.ts
002_add_feature.ts
007_character_stats.ts
```

---

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# API tests only
pnpm test:api

# Frontend tests
pnpm test:frontend

# E2E tests (Playwright)
pnpm test:e2e

# Type checking (ALWAYS run before committing)
pnpm typecheck
```

---

## API Endpoints Quick Reference

Base URL: `https://musclemap.me/api/`

| Endpoint | Method | Auth | Description |
|----------|--------|------|-------------|
| `/health` | GET | No | Health check (returns DB/Redis status) |
| `/auth/register` | POST | No | User registration |
| `/auth/login` | POST | No | User login (returns JWT) |
| `/stats/me` | GET | Yes | Character stats (RPG-style) |
| `/stats/leaderboards` | GET | Optional | Global/regional leaderboards |
| `/workouts` | GET/POST | Yes | Workout CRUD |
| `/prescriptions` | GET/POST | Yes | AI-generated workout plans |
| `/community/*` | Various | Yes | Social features |

Full documentation: `docs/API_REFERENCE.md`

---

## Environment Variables

Required in `apps/api/.env`:

```env
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3001
HOST=0.0.0.0

# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5432/musclemap
# Or individual PG* variables:
PGHOST=localhost
PGPORT=5432
PGDATABASE=musclemap
PGUSER=postgres
PGPASSWORD=your-password

# Auth
JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key-minimum-32-characters

# Optional
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379
REDIS_ENABLED=true
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_...
```

---

## Quick Start Checklist

When starting a new task:

- [ ] Read the task requirements carefully
- [ ] Check relevant docs in `docs/` directory
- [ ] Use TodoWrite to plan your approach
- [ ] Make changes in your worktree
- [ ] Run `pnpm typecheck` to verify TypeScript
- [ ] Commit changes frequently
- [ ] Run `./scripts/merge-all.sh` to merge branches
- [ ] Run `./deploy.sh` to deploy to VPS
- [ ] Run migrations if you added any
- [ ] Verify at https://musclemap.me/
- [ ] Test API: `curl https://musclemap.me/health`

---

## Architectural Philosophy

### Modular & Hierarchical

Everything is built in layers:
1. **Database Layer**: PostgreSQL with well-defined schemas
2. **Service Layer**: Business logic in TypeScript modules
3. **API Layer**: Fastify routes exposing services
4. **Client Layer**: SDK for consuming API
5. **UI Layer**: Platform-specific rendering

### Native Performance

When performance matters, we use C:
- `native/src/geo/geohash.c` - Fast geohashing for location queries
- `native/src/ratelimit/limiter.c` - High-performance rate limiting

### Plugin Architecture

Third-party integrations via plugins:
- Each plugin is isolated
- Standard SDK for development
- Hot-reloadable in development

### State Management

- **Server**: PostgreSQL is truth, Redis is cache
- **Client**: Minimal state, fetch what you need
- **Real-time**: WebSocket for live updates

---

## Server Infrastructure

- **VPS Provider:** Linux server at 72.62.83.202
- **Reverse Proxy:** Caddy (automatic HTTPS)
- **Process Manager:** PM2
- **Database:** PostgreSQL (local)
- **Cache:** Redis (optional)
- **Deployment:** Git pull + pnpm build

---

## Contact & Resources

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/jeanpaulniko/musclemap
- **Live Site:** https://musclemap.me/
- **API Health:** https://musclemap.me/health
- **VPS Access:** `ssh root@musclemap.me`

---

*This guide is for Claude AI developers working on MuscleMap. Keep it updated as the project evolves.*

Commit message:

Fix merge conflicts in mobile and client packages

scripts/README.md, after:

# MuscleMap Scripts & Claude Developer Guide

## Hello, Claude!

Welcome to **MuscleMap** - a cross-platform fitness tracking application that visualizes muscle activation in real-time. You are the AI developer responsible for implementing features, fixing bugs, and deploying changes across our multi-environment infrastructure.

**Live Production Site:** https://musclemap.me/
**GitHub Repository:** https://github.com/jeanpaulniko/musclemap

---

## Your Mission

1. **Plan** features before implementing them (use TodoWrite tool)
2. **Implement** changes in git worktrees (isolated development environments)
3. **Merge** all worktree branches into main using `./scripts/merge-all.sh`
4. **Deploy** across all environments using `./deploy.sh`
5. **Verify** the deployment is working at https://musclemap.me/

---

## Project Vision & Architecture

### The MuscleMap Vision

MuscleMap is a **universal fitness platform** built on these core principles:

- **Single Source of Truth**: PostgreSQL database with Redis caching layer
- **API-First Architecture**: All clients (web, mobile, VisionOS, Apple Watch) consume the same REST/GraphQL API
- **Clients Only Animate**: Frontend apps are pure presentation layers - they receive state and render it beautifully
- **Cross-Platform**: React web app, React Native mobile, VisionOS spatial computing, Apple Watch companion
- **Extensible**: Plugin architecture for third-party fitness device integrations
- **Performance-First**: Native C modules for compute-intensive operations (geohashing, rate limiting)
- **Biometric Integration**: Apple Watch, HealthKit, Garmin, Fitbit, and other fitness device data

### Design Aesthetic

- **Colors:** Electric blue (#0066FF), deep blacks, white accents
- **Typography:** Bebas Neue (headings), Inter (body), JetBrains Mono (code)
- **UI Style:** Glassmorphism, subtle gradients, 3D muscle visualizations
- **Animations:** Smooth, physics-based, performance-optimized
- **Mobile:** Native feel with haptic feedback

### Technical Design

- **We are a LaTeX first shop. Use it liberally for our documentation and generation

### Tech Stack

| Layer | Technology |
|-------|------------|
| **Frontend Web** | React + Vite + TailwindCSS + Three.js (3D) |
| **Mobile** | React Native + Expo |
| **VisionOS** | SwiftUI + RealityKit |
| **API Server** | Fastify (Node.js) + TypeScript |
| **Database** | PostgreSQL |
| **Cache/State** | Redis |
| **Native Modules** | C code compiled to Node addons |
| **Hosting** | Linux VPS (Caddy reverse proxy) |

### Directory Structure

```
musclemap.me/
├── apps/
│   ├── api/           # Fastify API server (TypeScript)
│   └── mobile/        # React Native + Expo app
├── packages/
│   ├── client/        # API client SDK for all platforms
│   ├── core/          # Shared business logic
│   ├── shared/        # Types and utilities
│   ├── plugin-sdk/    # Plugin development kit
│   └── ui/            # Shared UI components (Tamagui)
├── native/            # C native modules (geohash, rate limiter)
├── scripts/           # Automation scripts (YOU ARE HERE)
├── docs/              # Architecture documentation
├── src/               # React web frontend
└── public/            # Static assets
```

---

## Development Workflow

### Step 1: Understand the Task

Read relevant documentation:
- `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` - System architecture
- `docs/API_REFERENCE.md` - API endpoints
- `docs/DATA_MODEL.md` - Database schema
- `docs/PLUGINS.md` - Plugin system
- `docs/BIOMETRICS.md` - Health data integration

### Step 2: Work in a Worktree

Claude Code creates isolated git worktrees for each conversation:
```
~/.claude-worktrees/musclemap.me/<worktree-name>/
```

Your changes are isolated from main until you merge. This allows parallel development.

### Step 3: Make Changes

1. Use TodoWrite to track your progress
2. Edit code in the worktree
3. Run `pnpm typecheck` to verify no TypeScript errors
4. Commit your changes frequently

### Step 4: Merge & Deploy

Use these scripts in order:

```bash
# 1. Merge all worktree branches into main
./scripts/merge-all.sh

# 2. Deploy everything to VPS
./deploy.sh "Your commit message"

# 3. Run database migrations if needed
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"

# 4. Restart API if needed
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 restart musclemap-api"
```

---

## Scripts Reference

### Primary Scripts

#### `merge-all.sh` - Merge Worktree Branches
Collects all changes from git worktrees and merges them into main.

```bash
./scripts/merge-all.sh              # Interactive mode
./scripts/merge-all.sh --auto       # Auto-merge without prompts
./scripts/merge-all.sh --list       # List branches only
./scripts/merge-all.sh --dry-run    # Preview what would happen
```

#### `deploy.sh` (root) - Full Deployment
Commits, pushes, and deploys to VPS with full rebuild.

```bash
./deploy.sh "Commit message"
```

What it does:
1. Commits changes in current directory
2. Pushes to GitHub
3. Updates all worktrees
4. SSHs to VPS and pulls latest code
5. Rebuilds all packages and frontend

#### `production-deploy.sh` - VPS-Side Deployment
Run directly on the VPS for manual deployments:

```bash
./scripts/production-deploy.sh           # Full deployment
./scripts/production-deploy.sh --quick   # Skip tests
./scripts/production-deploy.sh --pull    # Just pull, no restart
```

### Utility Scripts

#### `deploy-branch.sh` - Branch-Based Deployment
```bash
./scripts/deploy-branch.sh                    # Standard deploy
./scripts/deploy-branch.sh --deploy --skip-tests  # Quick deploy
./scripts/deploy-branch.sh --auto-merge       # Auto-merge to main
```

#### `generate-icons.cjs` - App Icon Generation
```bash
node scripts/generate-icons.cjs
```

#### `maintain.sh` - Interactive Maintenance Menu
```bash
./scripts/maintain.sh
```

#### `repo-cleanup.sh` - Clean Build Artifacts
```bash
DRY_RUN=1 ./scripts/repo-cleanup.sh  # Preview
./scripts/repo-cleanup.sh            # Execute
```

---

## Remote Server Commands

### SSH to VPS
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me
# Or with IP: ssh root@72.62.83.202
```

### Common Remote Commands

```bash
# Check API status
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 status"

# View API logs (last 50 lines)
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 logs musclemap-api --lines 50 --nostream"

# Follow API logs live
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 logs musclemap-api"

# Restart API
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 restart musclemap-api"

# Run database migration
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"

# Rebuild API
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:api"

# Full rebuild
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:packages && pnpm build:api && pnpm build"

# Check disk space
ssh root@musclemap.me "df -h"

# Check memory
ssh root@musclemap.me "free -m"

# Check running processes
ssh root@musclemap.me "htop" # (interactive)
```

### Pattern for Remote Commands
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && <command>"
```

Chain multiple commands:
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && git pull && pnpm install && pnpm build"
```

---

## Common Issues & Solutions

### Issue: API won't start - "Cannot find module '../../../native'"

**Cause:** The native module path is incorrect or not built.

**Solution:**
```bash
# Build native module on VPS
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/native && pnpm add -D typescript @types/node && pnpm build"

# Rebuild API and restart
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:api && pm2 restart musclemap-api"
```

### Issue: TypeScript errors in hangouts/geo services

**Cause:** The hangouts feature has incomplete TypeScript types.

**Temporary Solution:** Comment out broken imports in `server.ts` or remove files:
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api/src && rm -f http/routes/hangouts.ts middleware/security.ts services/geo.service.ts services/hangout.service.ts"
```

### Issue: Database migration fails

**Cause:** Missing environment variables or database connection.

**Solution:**
1. Ensure `.env` file exists in `apps/api/`
2. Check DATABASE_URL or PG* variables are set
3. Run migration:
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"
```

### Issue: PM2 process keeps crashing

**Check logs:**
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 logs musclemap-api --lines 100 --nostream"
```

**Common fixes:**
```bash
# Rebuild
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me && pnpm build:api"

# Clean restart
ssh root@musclemap.me "pm2 delete musclemap-api; cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pm2 start dist/index.js --name musclemap-api"
```

### Issue: Merge conflicts

**Solution:**
1. Resolve conflicts in the worktree
2. Commit the resolution
3. Re-run merge script

Or manually:
```bash
cd /Users/jeanpaulniko/Public/musclemap.me
git checkout main
git merge origin/<branch-name>
# Resolve conflicts in editor
git add .
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflicts"
```

### Issue: Redis connection errors (non-critical)

Redis is optional. The API works without it but with degraded caching.

**To ignore:** Set `REDIS_ENABLED=false` in `.env`

**To fix:**
```bash
ssh root@musclemap.me "apt install redis-server && systemctl start redis"
```

---

## Build Order

When rebuilding everything, follow this order:

```bash
# 1. Shared packages (dependencies for others)
pnpm -C packages/shared build

# 2. Core business logic
pnpm -C packages/core build

# 3. Plugin SDK
pnpm -C packages/plugin-sdk build

# 4. API client
pnpm -C packages/client build

# 5. UI components
pnpm -C packages/ui build

# 6. API server
pnpm -C apps/api build

# 7. Frontend (Vite)
pnpm build
```

Or use convenience scripts:
```bash
pnpm build:packages && pnpm build:api && pnpm build
# Or
pnpm build:all
```

---

## Database Operations

### Run Migrations
```bash
# Local
cd apps/api && pnpm db:migrate

# Production
ssh root@musclemap.me "cd /var/www/musclemap.me/apps/api && pnpm db:migrate"
```

### Seed Data
```bash
cd apps/api && pnpm db:seed
```

### Migration Files
Located in `apps/api/src/db/migrations/`. Naming convention:
```
001_initial_schema.ts
002_add_feature.ts
007_character_stats.ts
```

---

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
pnpm test

# API tests only
pnpm test:api

# Frontend tests
pnpm test:frontend

# E2E tests (Playwright)
pnpm test:e2e

# Type checking (ALWAYS run before committing)
pnpm typecheck
```

---

## API Endpoints Quick Reference

Base URL: `https://musclemap.me/api/`

| Endpoint | Method | Auth | Description |
|----------|--------|------|-------------|
| `/health` | GET | No | Health check (returns DB/Redis status) |
| `/auth/register` | POST | No | User registration |
| `/auth/login` | POST | No | User login (returns JWT) |
| `/stats/me` | GET | Yes | Character stats (RPG-style) |
| `/stats/leaderboards` | GET | Optional | Global/regional leaderboards |
| `/workouts` | GET/POST | Yes | Workout CRUD |
| `/prescriptions` | GET/POST | Yes | AI-generated workout plans |
| `/community/*` | Various | Yes | Social features |

Full documentation: `docs/API_REFERENCE.md`

---

## Environment Variables

Required in `apps/api/.env`:

```env
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3001
HOST=0.0.0.0

# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5432/musclemap
# Or individual PG* variables:
PGHOST=localhost
PGPORT=5432
PGDATABASE=musclemap
PGUSER=postgres
PGPASSWORD=your-password

# Auth
JWT_SECRET=your-secret-key-minimum-32-characters

# Optional
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379
REDIS_ENABLED=true
STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_...
```

---

## Quick Start Checklist

When starting a new task:

- [ ] Read the task requirements carefully
- [ ] Check relevant docs in `docs/` directory
- [ ] Use TodoWrite to plan your approach
- [ ] Make changes in your worktree
- [ ] Run `pnpm typecheck` to verify TypeScript
- [ ] Commit changes frequently
- [ ] Run `./scripts/merge-all.sh` to merge branches
- [ ] Run `./deploy.sh` to deploy to VPS
- [ ] Run migrations if you added any
- [ ] Verify at https://musclemap.me/
- [ ] Test API: `curl https://musclemap.me/health`

---

## Architectural Philosophy

### Modular & Hierarchical

Everything is built in layers:
1. **Database Layer**: PostgreSQL with well-defined schemas
2. **Service Layer**: Business logic in TypeScript modules
3. **API Layer**: Fastify routes exposing services
4. **Client Layer**: SDK for consuming API
5. **UI Layer**: Platform-specific rendering

### Native Performance

When performance matters, we use C:
- `native/src/geo/geohash.c` - Fast geohashing for location queries
- `native/src/ratelimit/limiter.c` - High-performance rate limiting

### Plugin Architecture

Third-party integrations via plugins:
- Each plugin is isolated
- Standard SDK for development
- Hot-reloadable in development

### State Management

- **Server**: PostgreSQL is truth, Redis is cache
- **Client**: Minimal state, fetch what you need
- **Real-time**: WebSocket for live updates

---

## Server Infrastructure

- **We want to minimize the amount of data flowing through the by directional encrypted SSL data stream that is flowing out of the API using GraphQL. How can we optimize this can we run certain reoccurring things on the client end. Can we use some kind of vacuum rehydration technology to serve it more efficiently with lower latency using less data creating less traffic needing less bandwidth we have to optimize for that how do we distribute to work as uniformly as possible? What assets do we have available?

- **VPS Provider:** Linux server at 72.62.83.202
- **Reverse Proxy:** Caddy (automatic HTTPS)
- **Process Manager:** PM2 test suite
- **Database:** PostgreSQL (local)
- **Cache:** Redis (optional)
- **Deployment:** Git pull + pnpm build

---

## Contact & Resources:

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/jeanpaulniko/musclemap
- **Live Site:** https://musclemap.me/
- **API Health:** https://musclemap.me/health
- **VPS Access:** `ssh root@musclemap.me
- **Full test suite in /tests/ and we use Pino and Winston for thorough logging front and back to express themselves as data streams`

---

*This guide is for Claude AI developers working on MuscleMap. Keep it updated as the project evolves.*
